CUBA 1845, version 1:

Cuba is the biggest of the Caribian Islands. Its economy is mainly based on sugar cane and other agricultural products, 
Such as tobacco, cotton produce and cattle. In the southern part of the island, there are some nickel (in this game bauxite) 
and some iron. There is no coal in Cuba, and only a few oil wells is placed in the northern part of the country.

I sugest the player to start with a small railway from Habana, just the same that happened in the real world. It will take 
some years to consolidate your company, but soon the expansion will escalate. By 1910 or so, the whole system should be 
built, and by this time it will take approximately 90 trains to run it. Note:: No electric or diesels are avaiable before 
1957. By this time there are no more steam engines for sale.

PORTS:   IMPORT:                    EXPORT:        OTHER DATA: RRT2, The second Century  with    
          Coal                       Iron ore       option for multiple companies.  Start year 1845.                          
          Goods                      Coffee         Limited engine avaibility.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
          Grain                      Sugar          Start economy: 100%. Groth: 0,6% per year. 
          Goods: 1 unit per dock.

By  drawing this map I have built all railway lines with a maximum gradient of 2%, and replaced them with reserve cells. 
When finished the map I have liqudated the company and then tested the game by playing it 2 times.
Personally I prefer to simulate a minor railway system with pretty landscape, without any disturbing competition or too 
many train crashes. If You agree, I recommend the following cheat: TAB. Then whrite NOWRECK to eleminate all traincrashes. 
I really hope that Top Pop will reintrouduce (short) tunnels in the next version of RRT!!!

This map has been drawn by Anders Robert Pilgaard - Århus - Denmark.  (bx03638@post7.teledk).
Last update: 1999-08-08.