Europe (1919)
Map for Railroad Tycoon II TSC.
version 1.5

The Great War is over.  Europe must be back on its
feet and to the business of feeding and clothing itself.
The railroads have suffered from wear and neglect.
You must re-rail Europe.  And make your self rich in the
process.

There a some interesting engines during this time period 
we generally overlook.   Take time and study them.

Things to note:
Industry purchase price may differ from that in the 
dialog box.  You will have to look at the company books 
(ctrl-A) Status page to see the adjustment.  Multiply the 
dialog price by this to find the true price.  
(Franz has told Phil about this not showing correctly.)

The adjustment varies depending on the year ending economy.

Choosing a nationality will lock the AI players out for 
10 years, except Austria.  For Austria the AIs are 
locked out for the entire game. 
Everyone can go into Russia after 12 years, (weather permitting).
AI are also locked out of random countries to make it more fair.

Even so, Beware. The AIs love this map.  They are very strong here.

Watch out if you try the 'stop your trains trick' to crash company 
stock prices.  High negative company cash and low revenue and not 
hauling loads will in many cases result in your railroad being nationalized
by local governments.

version
-------
 1.5  France - SP Paris track was taken when cash fell below -500k as the
      loads were checked monthly instead of at the end of the year.
 1.4  Multi-player goals now include ways to win with PNW and CBV.
      Instant cash win is set lower to $45 million.
 1.3  Minor spelling errors corrected.  Open Poland to AI in 1940.
      Resets English, German credit rates. Correct some border areas
      in the Alps.
 1.2  Fixed error in Task 6 (Paris to Athens) connection flag.
 1.0  Release version
 0.1  Beta


If you find errors in spelling or events let me know
so I can fix them.
  
by Steve Lorenz
rrtii@earthlink.net
Heineken & Pacific Railroad
http://home.earthlink.net/~rrtii/
