CASCADIA

version 1.01 - April, 2001
by N. S. Bennett


In the year 2100, the polar icecaps have melted, civilization has collapsed, and the survivors have regressed to the Steam Age. Using homebuilt locomotives and salvaged rolling stock, your job is to establish a transportation network to tie together the Republic of Cascadia as it struggles to build a future out of what remains of the great state of Oregon.

Because your railroad builds all its own engines, you must invest in the physical plant needed to fabricate and assemble their component parts. The good news is that as your employees become more experienced at making steam engines, they will develop the skills needed to build new types of locomotives.

In addition to a limited choice of locos, you must also contend with a finite supply of track. Your railroad will be allocated enough steel to lay only 15 cells of track every year. To expand upon this meager supply, you will be awarded additional rail for shipping certain key cargos:

1 load of steel or aluminum will earn 5 track cells
1 load of milk or fertilizer will earn 1 track cell
2 loads of wool or produce will earn 1 track cell
3 loads of grain or cattle will earn 1 track cell



Win Conditions

BRONZE - connect the Willamette Valley to Grand Ronde and Bend, and supply the military depot at Albany with at least 5 loads of weapons, 20 loads of ammunition, and 20 loads of diesel fuel

SILVER - also deliver at least 5 loads of weapons, 20 loads of ammunition, and 20 loads of diesel fuel to the military depot at Grants Pass, and the Military-Industrial Complex (an AI company) must show at least $10,000,000 in lifetime profits from industry

GOLD - restore electric power to the Republic. Step One: help rebuild Round Butte Dam by shipping at least 5 loads of steel reinforcing bars and 25 loads of concrete to the nearby town of Madras. Step Two: salvage any two of the four powerhouses in the Cascade Mountains -- tire factories represent these powerhouses, so you must ship two loads of rubber (workers and technicians) to each dam and send the resulting tires (salvaged equipment) from the dams to Madras. Step Three: once the dam is generating electricity again, you must electrify your tracks to bring power to the towns and industries you serve. Step Four: there is no Step Four, but in addition to restoring electricity to Cascadia, the Military-Industrial Complex must earn at least $15,000,000 in lifetime industry profits for you to win Gold.

All personal and company debts must be paid off in order to qualify for any medal win.



Notes

This scenario is an exercise in logistics. Plan ahead.

It takes a few years to complete repairs and refill Lake Billy Chinook before Round Butte Dam begins generating electricity, so don't put this off until the last minute...

Though this is a relatively large (400x400) map, it represents a geographical region about 125 miles square. Locomotive speeds are thus anomalously high, and fuel and track maintenance cost less than usual.

The terrain is difficult but can be overcome without resorting to editing the map.

The status reports for Gold are a little terse because of space limitations.

Cascadia Power & Light has no function in the scenario from the player's perspective, but an AI company has to own the powerhouses/tire factories to keep them from disappearing during the course of a game.

Similarly, the city of Grants Pass usually has two or three military depots because playtesting revealed that there is a possibility that the depot planted there will disappear in the course of a game if it is not served. I had assumed that military depots would be immune to this phenomenon, as they cannot be purchased like other industries, but this appears to be another one of the game's little quirks...

Special thanks to Steve M. and Robert Olesen for their feedback.



Version History

0.1B
Cities, regions, and terrain. Engineering the landscape with the track laying tool will help smooth out red grades, but remember that your company has a limited supply of track.

0.2B
Added and tested event sequences.

0.3B
Initial beta testing. Experimented with allowing cement production east of the mountains but decided against it.

0.4B
Changed win conditions (the Gold win used to be Silver...), reduced fuel costs, and sped up locomotives further; continued beta testing. Liquidated and restarted all three companies, as the game keeps the cost of bulldozing buildings on the books.

1.0
Initial release.

1.01
Fixed flawed loss trigger.


Comments, questions, and bug reports may be sent to nsb@teleport.com