RT2 (TSC)

The Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire Railway
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

INTRODUCTION
This scenario embraces events from half a century that have been fitted into a more playable 20-25 years (depending on how good you are!). The MSLR arose from separate roots on both sides of the Pennines that were connected by a line over Woodhead.  The gradients were quite stiff and a difficult tunnel had to be cut through the highest ground between Woodhead and Dunford Bridge.  This has been simplified.  

As the company developed in E-W directions it acquired a one-third share in the Cheshire Lines Committee, a railway that operated in Cheshire and Lancashire.  A new direct line between Liverpool and Manchester was one of its developments. Most major cities had more than one station and the MSLR & CLC operated out of Manchester London Road (nowadays called Manchester Picadilly) and Manchester Central (hint!). 

Eventually the MSLR decided to expand southwards via the London Extension.  That was opened in 1899 and only the early stages fall in the scope of this scenario.  When connection with the Capital was imminent the MSLR changed its name to the Great Central Railway.  

COMPETITORS
Competition in the North of England was always stiff and the main companies were:- 
London and North Western Railway (LNWR),  Lancashire & Yorkshire Railway (LYR),  Midland Railway (MR),  Great Northern Railway (GNR),  Hull and Barnsley Railway (H&B),  North Eastern Railway (NER).  That's why the game includes 3 competitors for you to deal with.  The good news is that the MSLR/GCR eventually established good relations with some of the above and this is reflected in the scenario.  The map includes the two principal N-S main lines, the West Coast Main Line and the East Coast Main Line.    

INDUSTRY AND OBJECTIVES
The company served some of the most industrialised districts in England and was a heavy haulier of freight - in fact a higher proportion of the MSLR's revenue came from freight than any other main line railway.  Your objectives are tailored accordingly.  Success in this scenario will depend on your ability to manage many tasks without gumming things up.  Bear in mind that TSC allows you to store freight at stations (or yards, in effect).    

A chemical industry developed quite early in Cheshire, before RT2 allows it, so a timber industry based on Delamere Forest nearby has been substituted.  

FUNDING
The MSLR relied on shares in the normal way but especially on debentures (fixed interest bonds). Hence bonds will be the only way that you'll be able to raise extra funding.  They became a millstone for the company and you may at times experience something similar - debt is something else you may have to learn to manage, especially as you will report to the board and won't have a completely free hand - some MSLR investments may be made above your head.  

BRIDGES
Finally, an appeal to your good nature.  TSC allows bridges that can cross oceans, which is of course unrealistic for the 19th century.  Indeed, the River Humber wasn't bridged until a whole century later.  May we tactfully ask you to refrain from using this option to cross major waterways?  With one exception - you may cross the Mersey between Liverpool-Birkenhead. This represents the Mersey Tunnel.  It didn't carry long distance traffic but it is available and can be useful for local traffic.  

POSTSCRIPT
If you have any comments (good, bad or indifferent!) or would like help or discuss strategy, feel free to contact us at SteveWBanks@freeuk.com.  

Geoffrey & Steve Banks  
April 2002 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
PLAYING TIPS (OPTIONAL)
a) All RT2 games depend on a good start.  Make sure you have some good long runs as soon as possible.  
b) The MSLR started on both sides of the Pennines, you should do likewise or competitors will take over.  A second station in Manchester (Central) helps.  Stake out your territory and discourage the competition by expanding faster than them. 

FEEDBACK
We would be interested to know how you rate this scenario.  The following would be helpful:

1 - Would you describe yourself as a beginner, average, experienced?
2 - How many attempts did you need to get the Gold?
3 - At which player level?
4 - How, in your own words, would you rate this game?  

Feedback please to the above address, many thanks. 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 