Free Four All - a map for Railroad Tycoon 2 - v1.0 - by Sirian

Map size     : 360x360
Date Released: Jan 24, 1999

Single Player: Yes
Map Goals    : Yes
Map Events   : Yes
Multiplayer  : Yes
Max Players  : 4
Max Total    : 4

Default Start: 1935
Earlier Start: 1845
Latest Start : 1995


Free Four All is primarily a multiplay map for up to four players. 

Each player controls one quarter of the map, and can only build or 
buy in that territory. Stocks play a minor role at best, as there 
are no mergers or takeovers allowed, you cannot resign as chairman, 
and personal net worth factors into the victory conditions only as 
the tiebreaker in case of a three-way tie.

You must use connected track on this map.

Electric train costs are reduced. All other settings are normal.

Free Four All map has NO TIME LIMIT. Players play until all the 
victory conditions have been met. There are three conditions for 
victory, and the first player to meet each condition scores a 
Victory Point. Earning two Victory Points wins the game, however 
if the same company earns the first two points, game play can 
continue until someone earns the third point if players wish. The 
game ends when any combination of players meet all three conditions.

Victory Condition: First company to haul 250 loads in a single year.
Victory Condition: First company with Book Value exceeding $125,000,000
Victory Condition: First to earn industry profits of $2,500,000 in one year.
Tie Breaker:       Player with highest personal net worth.

There are two events of note in the game.

Coal Hill to Oreville: you have 10 years to make the connection, and then 
an unlimited amount of time to haul the loads, if the connection is made.

Priority Mail: will increase mail supply by 1/3, revenue by 1/4, and a 
slight increase in revenue for paper and pulpwood.

Single player works just like multiplayer, except you are racing only the AIs.


Good luck!


Sirian ... aka ... Robert B. Thomas
