"Railroad Tycoon 2: The Second Century"

Scenario "hell and high water.mp2" (adapted from campaign part #15)


Goals: (unchanged from campaign)

	Bronze - deliver 60 loads of cement to Madrid by January 16

	Silver - deliver 60 loads of cement to Madrid by January 13

	Gold - deliver 60 loads of cement to Madrid by January 9

	Just for fun - try to accomplish your mission before the 'dam'
		at Gibralter is washed away


Changes:

1)  Added a station at Clermont-Ferrand... otherwise any trains in that
	area run out of sand.




	In an interview in "Gaming World", Phil Steinmeyer of PopTop
stated that one of their favorite single-player scenarios to play was
"Hell and High Water"... yet that doesn't exist as a stand-alone, only
as part of the TSC campaign.  Maybe they've got it saved as a stand-alone
over at PopTop, but it didn't come with the game, and it's not on the
Web anywhere... so I decided to create it.

	It's exactly the same as campaign #15 -- a terrorist group has blown
up the GeoCore Plant near Madrid, and the volcanic gases leaking out of the
fissure are causing massive flooding... you've got to deliver 60 loads of cement
to Madrid to help seal the fissure.

	The user choices in the campaign are set up at the beginning of each
campaign part (the screen where you choose which campaign part you're going
to do next, with the three choices at the bottom), but just aren't possible in
a stand-alone scenario.  So I've gone ahead and written them in using the
possibilities of scenario events... make your choices well.





				DISCLAIMER:

	Please note that these changes have been authorized by PopTop Software
	or Godgames (Gathering of Developers), though I do not work for either
	company, nor am I being compensated in any way for this campaign fix.

	Use of this fixed map is at your own risk, and is not subject to any
	liabilities.

	"Railroad Tycoon II: The Second Century" is copyright 1999 PopTop Software
	and copyright 1999 Gathering of Developers

	PopTop Software - http://www.poptop.com/
	Gathering of Developers - http://www.godgames.com/



David Masters / MasterWorks, Inc.
dmasters@jlc.net -- http://www.jlc.net/~dmasters/index.html
August 10th, 1999