The map was created using Linux version of RailRoad Tycoon II with
the Second Century expansion pack installed.  The map is not located
to any known region of the world.

Here is some general information about the map.

A new transportation vehicle, automobile, has been recently invented
and the world is looking for sources of fuel to run its automobiles.
Soon, mass production of automobiles is due to start opening new
markets for shipping oil, diesel and automobiles.

Kingdom of Bulvania has great potential in providing fuel to the
global markets.  You, as a transportation engineer of the Bulvanian
Petroleum Inc, are responsible for building transportation routes
for shipping oil, diesel and automobiles.

The Kingdom of Bulvania is a remote and mountaneous country with no
oil fields of its own.  However, the kingdom is located by the sea
and the most profitable oil shipping routes pass throught the ports 
operated by the Kingdom of Bulvania.

Currently the economy of the Kingdom of Bulvania is dependent on
paper industry.  This is expected to change due to the ideal 
location of the kingdom in the middle of the oil shipping route.
It also is expected that the economy of the Kingdom of Bulvania 
starts growing in trendemous rate once the oil starts pouring in.

It should be easy to earn bronze and silver in this scenario.  The 
gold, in my opinnion, is a more challenging goal.  Here are some 
tips for striving for gold.

Expand your track aggressively at the beginning of the game so that  
you can start shipping oil early in the game.  Recall that an oil well 
only produces three loads of oil per year and it may take quite a time 
to deliver the loads.  Trains of the late 19th century are quite slow 
and depending on the length of the route, they may take upto five years
to deliver their loads.  If you are shipping all the oil a well may 
produce, you may estimate that in ten years you should be able to ship 
thirty loads of oil.  Again, let me remind you that it will take some
time to deliver the first loads.  For the gold you must deliver at 
least one hundred loads of diesel to the ports so be sure to start 
shipping oil and diesel early in the game.

Watch out for congestion.  In this scenario cities grow rapidly and 
lucrative routes open up frequently.  However, the kingdom is a very
mountaneous one and there are not so many good places to lay track on.
When the diesel trains start pouring in, you will have lots of trains 
running on the same pairs of tracks.  To accommodiate that, be sure to 
build enough track for the trains running long routes.  If necessary,
build a couple of stations to each major city and balance the traffic
between the stations in order to avoid congestion near the station.  
Moreover, select your locomotives right.  Fast locomotives do not
typically climb well and they may even bring the whole system to a
grinding halt if they stop on a hill.

Toni Ronkko <toni.ronkko@uku.fi>