
The Philippines (TSC)
-------------------------------

INTRODUCTION

This land of a thousand islands and many volcanos is a complex area with different types of terrain, climate, agriculture & industry, the focus of which has changed several times over the years.  The playing map is to the maximum size allowed by RT2 - if only it could be bigger!  A few concessions have been made to maintain playability but we have tried to maintain the flavour of the country.  

There are several centres of industry and commerce but agriculture and logging dominate.  Coffee used to be exported until disease struck and though recovery eventually took place it is after the period of this scenario.  Fishing is widespread but too many ports would have deluged the scenario so only the most important ones have been included for the international exports.   

Copra is a major export and, to some degree, rubber   (both = rubber).  
Much rice and corn is grown                                                (both = grain). 

HISTORY

Railways in the Philippines have come and gone somewhat, the main passenger line being on the principal island of Luzon.  It was modernised after World War II.  Smaller (and much older!) steam locos such as Baldwins and Shays from America and Henschels from Germany have seen service on plantations on several of the islands and some are still in use today.
 
OBJECTIVES (25 years)

 - Connect all the principal islands with Luzon (that's 12 islands or groups you must connect).
 - Export sugar, logs, and copra/rubber (100 loads each).    
 - Make Industry Profits of $10m
 - Four further tasks will develop during play. 
Gold will be awarded for meeting all the tasks, Silver for falling one short, and Bronze for falling three short.  

PLAYING TIPS

 - CTRL+F can be useful to find towns and cities. 
 - Towns and cities may have more than one station in the usual way but exports will only be counted if delivered to a Port Authority which are on independent territories.  Connection with an island has to be made on normal territory, not the Port Authority.   
 

CREDITS  - thanks to Steve Lorenz (Heineken & Pacific) whose satellite-based map we redrew with the aid of maps from terrestial sources including Pete Loud and Lib.utexas.  Geographical and economic sources included Philippines.org.  

FEEDBACK - It helps to know how you got on!  
 a) Would you describe yourself as a beginner, average, experienced?
 b) At what level did you play and how many attempts before you got the Gold? 
 c) In your own words, what do you think of this scenario?  (Be as pleasant, charming, belligerent or rude as you like).

Answers please to stevewbanks@freeuk.com.  Same address if you have any questions or for help with strategy.  

Geoffrey & Steve Banks
January 2003 
