

--- General Information ---
Full Map Title : Warlord China v1.0
Author : abaumler@yahoo.com

 Copyright Info. : Do whatever you want with it
Usage Restrict. : see above

--- Vital Statistics ---
Starting Year : 1907
Start Range : 1907
Map Size : 500*350
Map Base : New Map 
Topography Base : China
Territories : 8
Map Restrictions: None.
Special Restrct.:  None.
Barred Industry : None
Player Pool :  Custom
Manager Pool : All 
Locomotive Pool :  All 

--- Single Player Data ---
Single Player : Scenario 
Computer Players: 1-9
SP Gold Win : Connect Xuzhou, Changsha and Shanghai, book value>30mil
SP Silver Win : Book Value > 25 mil
SP Bronze Win : Book Value 20mil


--- Multi-Player Data ---
Multi-Player : Yes 
MP Gold Win : Highest book value


--- Extra Information ---
Known Bugs : None (pick one)
Other Notes : 
Warlord China v1.0
1907-War with Japan 

  This should be fun. It is a bigish map with a lot of events, so it may run slow on some 
computers. It runs fine on my 350Mz K6. The geography is a little haphazard. The elevations 
were taken from a map at, GLOBE but the rest was done by hand. The dates for the events are 
also off on occasion, as I wanted to reduce CPU use by checking yearly rather than monthly. 
The war with Japan is not random, it starts when it did historically. If you don't remember 
when that was, you should have stayed awake in history class.  
  My basic idea was that I wanted there to be plenty of money-making opportunities so that
 players would have the margin to deal with the many events. Not all of the events are bad, 
but this was not a period when it was easy to run a railroad. It should work well as a 
multi-player game, as there are several distinct regions where you can make money. I have had 
more trouble getting the computer-controlled railroads to be competitive, since I tend to be
 a cargo person and thus created a situation with lots of opportunities to run cargo and not 
as much passengers and mail. 
  This is my first attempt at a map, so it is probably unbalanced somehow. Suggestions can
 be sent to abaumler@yahoo.com or you can fix it yourself.

-Read more about it-
	This is a very interesting period of history, which unfortunately has been given little
 attention in English. Besides the relevant sections of Spence The Search for Modern China you 
might also look at 

Marie-Claire Bergere Sun Yat-sen Stanford U.P. 1998 -Best general history of the period to 1925 
Lloyd Eastman Abortive Revolution Harvard U.P. 1973 -Deals with Chiang Kai-shek and his 
government 1927-1937
Keith Schoppa Blood Road:The Mystery of Shen Dingyi in Revolutionary China. -Fascinating story 
of a man who was murdered because...well, it's complicated. Read the book.  
Bonovia, China's Warlords
Brian Martin The Shanghai Green Gang -Drugs, murder, money. What more could you want?
There are lots of other books, of course. A good bibliography is Hayford China Clio Press World Bibliographic Series 1997 
