Mad King Ed
A map for the original Railroad Tycoon II 

(Public Release 1: Version 4)
Revised for: THE SECOND CENTURY ADD ON

by
Eddie Bangor
eddie@worzel.force9.net

You MUST have the Second Century Add-on pack for this scenario to work.

To use this map copy the Mad King Edv4.map file to your Railroad Tycoon II MAP folder on your hard drive.

This is designed to be a long, drawn out map. My thanks (again) to Graham Willard for advise and testing and to UK Rail Express - http://rrtii.future.easyspace.com/ - and to Slap - http://www.strategygames.net/games/RailroadTycoon2/ for having the best sites around. Oh and to Pop Top for the game itself, not to mention the wonderful add-on "The Second Century": http://www.poptop.com/

--- Vital Statistics ---
Starting Year : 1950
Start Range : none - 1950 only
Map Size : 400 * 400
Map Base : New Map
Topography Base : Fictional World 
Territories : Yes (14)
Map Restrictions: Map Restrictions (Track laying to existing track only)
Special Restrictions.: None.
Barred Industry : None.
Player Pool : Custom 
Manager Pool : Custom
Locomotive Pool : Custom

--- Single Player Data ---
Single Player : Scenario
Computer Players: Yes (4 compulsory: 4 more optional) 
SP Gold Win : Be the only railroad.
SP Silver Win : 50 Loads Palace Island to King Ed Country
SP Bronze Win : N/A
SP Loss : 2050.

--- Multi-Player Data ---
Multi-Player : NOT TESTED. 
MP Gold Win : N/A.
MP Silver Win : N/A.
MP Bronze Win : N/A.
MP Loss : N/A

--- Extra Information ---
Known Bugs : The STATUS window of the annual report doesn't work. 

Other Notes : 

This scenario has been updated for the "Second Century" add-on pack. All additional cargoes and industries have been utilised including the New Power station. Also, there's been some tweaking of the coastline to make the longer spanning bridges useful. The starting range has moved forward and events have been updated for that. However, no new ones have been added but you have 20 years less to complete.

The Stock Market is either won or lost in the first half of this game. In order to win gold you have to destroy all your opponents completely, as they can start other companies once you've bought up their first. 

Playing with all eight opponents does clog up the map but, hay, that's the challenge.
Various town and territories will reward you for your connection and, King Ed is likely to stick his nose into your business any time he sees fit. Some of what he does will be helpful some, well, won't be.

A list of the requirements to get into all the territories follows. (Don't look if you'd rather be surprised.) All are based around your companies performance. You don't need all, but you do need more than you are given in order to win. Your opponents start with different rights.


Main South Land: Free at start-up
Timber Island: Time delayed.
South farms: Time delayed.
Far South Passage: 100 loads in any year.
South East: 100 Loads in any Year.
Desert Island: Company Book Value over $25 million.
North West: Industry Investments over $15 million.
High Hills: Industry Profits in any year over $5 million.
North West: Lifetime Company Revenue over $250 million.
Upper Island: Lifetime Company Revenue over $250 million.
Island Nation: Lifetime Company Revenue over $250 million.
King Ed Country: Company Income in one year over $5 Million.
Palace Island: Electric track cells numbering over 2,500.

Cheers
Edward Bangor
30/05/99
