The first rails were rolled into Colorado in late June 1867 by the Union Pacific. These first connections were an attempt 
to link Denver with the east. It wasn't until 1887 that the formidable rockies were penetrated in Colorado with a difficult 
grade laid by the Colorado Central railroad from Denver to Georgetown through Clear Creek Canyon to tap the silver mines 
there. Some of the highest rails in the country were laid from Georgetown through Silver Plume up to Waldorf near Mt. 
McClellan to service the Vidler mine. Here, the Argentine Central used Shays to climb to 13,110 feet to give the tourists a 
view of Grays and Torreys peaks. In the summer you can still ride the narrow gauge from Georgetown to Silver Plume.

There are  two traditional routes through the Colorado rockies from Denver to Grand Junction. But dozens of passes over the 
divide have seen rails over the years. Most were short haul, short lived, financial disasters motivated by the rich mineral 
deposits here. The first Denver-Grand Junction connection went from Denver to Bailey to Como to Buena Vista through the 
continental divide via the Alpine Tunnel, then downhill through Gunnison, Montrose, Delta to Grand Junction. The other 
principal route is Denver to Granby via a tunnel under the Divide, then to Kremmling, Glenwood Springs and Grand Junction. 
This is the route that Amtrak uses today. In the map, I have provided two reasonable grades to replace the tunnels. One at 
Monarch Pass which is very near the Alpine tunnel, and a couple of switchbacks over the divide  between Denver and Summit 
County to replace the tunnel that exists near Granby.

In this map, it will probably be necessary to haul minerals to keep your railroad afloat. Passenger revenues are low and 
towns are too far apart to make much money. Locate the mines and try to get their output to the smelters which were 
historically located in Leadville, Pueblo, and Denver. The cattle ranches in the Arkansas River valley between Salida and 
Leadville were an important source of  food for the miners and early rail stations. And there was and is a significant 
agriculture industry in the southeast part of the state. Another good source of revenue will be anything related to 
construction like gravel, cement, lumber, and logs. Prices for these building commodities often skyrocketed when demand was 
high.

Another good source of income after 1965 is supplying the ski resorts with goods and passengers. All the ski resorts on this 
map pay a $500,000 bonus per year if you can haul more the 10 loads in a year to them.

The victory conditions are to  connect Denver and Grand Junction and haul 12 loads between them within 35 years for Gold, 
50 years for Silver, and 80 years for Bronze. Multiplayer win is the first to accomplish this goal, no time limit.

Comments of suggestions to jpreston@colorado.net

Thanks to Don Turnbull for his thoughful suggestions. 

Jeff Preston