Szenario: "Stampede V1.0 " for Railroad Tycoon II 
-english version-

Creator: Robert Mueller  "the porky"
E-mail:  porky69@gmx.de
Last update: 31.Juli 1999

Size: 300 x 400

Foreword:
This is a map and Szenario of north-Germany.
It  never takes up for himself, to be identical with the real north-Germany. It`s fictitious ! Quite the reverse:
The map shows "mountains" and other "geological details" which would  be "one-time" in the complete geological history (what a pity !)  My "north-Germany" offers almost everything: Wood, cabbage, ore, oil, corn, ports (yes, it`s finally  north-Germany and lies in the proximity of the North Sea), sheep .... and of course: beer!
Now you will say: beer isn't offered or produced in RT2. That`s right! But what shall I do, the story deals with this good stuff ! Well, regards every waggon as "beer-waggon", then it will work. Much more important are the many "small details".You already will see it, If you take the small details and primarily -the reports- into your account !

The story:
Anno Domini 1830 "Speedy" ruled in north-Germany,  peaceful and in harmony with the nature and his people. The people were so enthusiastic about this ruler that they lovingly mentioned him to "King Speedy". They baptized his capital "King Speedy Town". It seems, that there were nothing what could disturb the harmony in this empire, ever. Yes, if there not still also  "Alci".
A never-do-well and criminal. This"Alci" had day out and day in nothing else to do, as produce and distribut alcohol ( beer!  -Therefore his name "Alci"- ).
This turned out allright for decades. Nothing would have changed, haven't "Alci" made the mistake of his life.
He crept into King-Speedys wonderland and founded next to Speedy´s capital the metropolis "Alci-Town". 
Illicit distillers and breweries grew "in no time at all" like mushrooms in ALCI-Town.  His idea was a "big north-German bock-beer-party". But King Speedy wasn't stupid (unfortunately, he also loved bock-beer about everything).
He wanted to banish Alci from his empire. He knew about his large weakness. Alci was randy to win "gold medals".
And so  "the evil took his run..."

I hope that you like my Szenario.
If yes, e-mail me,  if not,  also!
I`ve tested the Szenario into all Datails several times.There wasn't any problem. It`s definitely possible to fulfilling all demands of this idiotic King Speedy in the predefined time and gain the gold medal!
You may duplicate and spread my Szenario, so often you wants. I exclude all copyrights at this Szenario!

Attention all Germans!
It also exist a German version, because:  "we Germans must spread bock-beer over the whole world" !!!!
( if you a German, please download the German version, because some  funny "German Citys" and  Reports loses her meaning  if I would translate them into English) 
If there are no German version on this page ( I can`t believe it)  e-mail me. Then I will remail!

But I think this english version is also "very funny", or ?

Greatings to all RT2 fans !

Robert Mueller   "the porky"

porky69@gmx.de