MONTANIA 1858 version 2:

Montania is a very huge map. At the west coast the economy is based on  agriculture, in the centre of the contry there 
are heavy industries based on coal, iron, bauxite and gravel. In the eastern part of the country, there is a mixture of 
sheep, grain and logging camps. In the south the economy is based on oil, cattle and sugar beets.

I sugest the player to start with a small railway from Kingston, the capital of the contry. After a few years to 
consolidate your company, expand your railway to Galesburg and build up the steel industry there. Kingston/Newport 
is a huge urban center, so there should be plenty of mail and passengers to carry to and from the provinces. By 1910 
or so, the whole system should be built, and by this time it will take approximately 225 trains to run it.
Note:: From 1950, until 1957 six classes of steam locomotives are avaiable. After then only electrics or diesels 
are on the market
PORTS:   IMPORT:                     EXPORT:      OTHER DATA: RRT2, The second Century  with    
          Goods                       Oil          option for multiple companies.  Start year 1858.                          
          Nothing                     Waste        Alternative engine avaibility.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
          Cotton: 1 unit per dock.                 Start economy: 100%. Growth: 0,6% per year. 
          Goods: 1 unit per dock.

By  drawing this map I have built all railway lines with a maximum gradient of 2%, and replaced them with reserve 
cells. When finished the map I have liqudated the company and then tested the game by playing it 2 times.
Personally I prefer to simulate a minor railway system with pretty landscape, without any disturbing competition or 
too many train crashes. If You agree, I recommend the following cheat: TAB. Then whrite NOWRECK to eleminate all 
traincrashes.

This map has been drawn by Anders Robert Pilgaard - Århus - Denmark.  (bx03638@post7.teledk). 
Last update: 1999-08-15
