AURELIA 1862 version 1:

Welcome to Aurelia! This small kingdom has asked for your expertice to build a efficiant railway system to 
bring supplies to the growing industry and to service the population with better comunications. At the West 
Coast the economy is based on  agriculture, in the centre of the contry there are heavy industries based on 
coal, iron, bauxite, lumber and gravel. 

I sugest the player to start with a small railway from Kingston to Nunaton, to bring imported cotton to a 
textile mill. After a few years to consolidate your company, you can start building the coastal trunk line 
between Garrick and Southport. The Kingston/Newport area is a huge urban center, so there should be plenty 
of mail and passengers to carry to and from the provinces. By 1910 or so, the whole system should be built, 
and by this time it will take approximately 150 trains to run it. Note:: Until 1957 no diesel locomotives 
are avaiable. In that year there will be a choise between      "second hand steam engines from a neighboring 
country for a bargain prize until 1960" (scrap prize = 80% off), or an option to sign a 10 year contract with 
General Motors for deliverance of 3 classes of  new diesels (15% off). From 1935 electric locomotives are 
avaiable. Space is reserved for quadouble track and bypasses around most of the big population centres. Average 
distance between stations are approximately 5-10 km, using a scale of 2 squares = 1 km.

PORTS:   IMPORT:                       EXPORT:          OTHER DATA: RRT2, The second Century  with    
          Goods                         Iron ore         option for multiple companies.  Start year >1849,1862,                              
          Goods                         Bauxite          <1872. Alternative engine avaibility.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
          Food                          Logs             Start economy: 90%. Growth: 1,1% per year. 
          Cotton: 1 unit per dock.

Win conditions: BRONZE: 30 mill., SILVER: 50 mill., GOLD: 75 mill. of company book value within 30 years.
By  drawing this map I have built all railway lines with a maximum gradient of 2%, and replaced them with 
reserve cells. When finished the map I have liqudated the company and then tested the game by playing it 2 times.   
Personally I prefer to simulate a minor railway system with pretty landscapes, without any disturbing competition 
or too many train crashes. If You agree, I recommend the following cheat: TAB. Then whrite NOWRECK to eleminate 
all traincrashes.

This map has been drawn by Anders Robert Pilgaard - Århus - Denmark.  (bx03638@post7.teledk).
Last update: 1999-10-24.
