VENETO & TRENTINO-ALTO ADIGE

by Marco Stefanutti (stefanutti@dgt.uniud.it)

Map for RT2 classic (and for TSC of course)

Alesso - Udine - Italy - February 2000

Many RT2 fans e-mailed me last year because they wanted to play on detailed maps
representing Italian regions. Italy map had a great success since it has won Slap's award
as the best map for 4 weeks. After that success, Alex Cucchiaro and I created the map of my
 region: Friuli-Venezia-Giulia; it's time to create other regions now. Someone could think 
it's late, but, as other map-creators know, the making of a detailed map requires time and 
patience.

The second map containing Italian regions is ready now: it represents Veneto (everybody knows Venice) and Trentino-
Alto Adige (a region composed by a part in which the main language isn't Italian but German: in fact Alto Adige (Südtirol) became Italian after the Ist World War).
Veneto and Trentino-Alto Adige are in the North East of Italy; there's no scenario in this 
map: you may play starting at the year you want, with the number of competitors you desire, with RT2 classic
or with the new engines and the new game strategies of TSC,...

Enjoy this map, enjoy Italy!

Have fun,

		
		Marco Stefanutti


P.S. As in all the maps I made all the industries and resources are based on real economic
data; there's an exception: the bauxite-mines and the cotton farms don't exist in these 
regions. Nevertheless I had to introduce them to make the game function.

TECHNICAL INFORMATION

VENETO & TRENTINO ALTO-ADIGE MAIN LINES

(Milano)-Verona-Vicenza-Padova-Venezia
Venezia-Portogruaro-(Trieste)
Venezia-Treviso-(Udine)
Venezia-Padova-Rovigo-(Bologna)
(Bologna)-Verona-Trento-Bolzano-Brennero-(Innsbruck)

If you need info about italian railways, please write me.


Other maps I created by myself or with Alex Cucchiaro:

	Italy 1.0
	Italy 2.0
	Italy 2.1
	Italy 3.0

	Friuli-Venezia-Giulia 1.0 - RT2
	Friuli-Venezia-Giulia 1.0 - TSC
	Friuli-Venezia-Giulia 1.1 - RT2
	Friuli-Venezia-Giulia 1.1 - TSC	

	New Eden

	Switzerland - Heart of Chockolate
 