"Railroad Tycoon 2: The Second Century"

Scenario "Tanagore Island.mp2"


	Not based on anything but my imagination.

General description: an island (okay, a small continent) with semi-limited
	industries and raw materials, with plenty of events - good, bad,
	and silly.


Bronze: $10 million company book value, $5 million personal net worth

Silver: $20 million company book value, $15 million personal net worth,
	200 loads of bauxite hauled, 50% electric track

Gold:   $40 million company book value, $25 million personal net worth,
	400 loads of bauxite hauled, 87% electric track, connect 5 cities
	(among them Oceanview and Mulden Port)



Restrictions: no short selling, no buying on margin, no starting multiple
		companies, no customs, new track must be connected to track
		already laid down (yours or anyone elses)

Opponents:    1 mandatory, 5 more optional

Start year: 1967

Revision number: who keeps track?  Call this 1.01



General notes / development:  I actually started this back in late May, when I
	first got the game (which was two weeks after I got RT2... addictive, you
	say?) ... but then I got caught up in both real life and
	fixing / troubleshooting the campaigns and scenarios in both games.

	Various place names: "Winston Group" (islands in the NE) named after
	the Columbus Group in Tom Clancy's "Debt of Honor".
	Danang out on Laos Point... for those who are still there.
	Penkovsky - the famous Russian spy, usually has a military depot.
	Parker and Raines - from the NBC series "Pretender"... Raines will
	almost always have a weapons factory (if they had oxygen factories
	available, I would've used it) while Parker will almost always have a
	fertilizer plant (cause she always swallows the Centre's bull) and a
	meat packing plant (she's just another piece of TV meat and/or a pun
	on 'heat packing', as she's always armed).
	Rutherford and Solomon from NBC's "Third Rock from the Sun"...
	Rutherford has a mission revival style station (their mission, of
	course) and a barracks (another	reference to their mission) while
	Solomon usually has a nuclear plant (cause Dick usually goes ballistic).

	Why such a long scenario?  I wanted to start in the 60's, but I also
	wanted to do some Y2K stuff... anyway, as bauxite isn't that plentiful
	and must be delivered to ports in order to count, it needs a bit of
	time.  There are definitely enough cities to keep you busy... enough
	without being too much.

	Okay, so they're not *good* jokes...





David Masters / MasterWorks, Inc.
dmasters@jlc.net -- http://www.jlc.net/~dmasters/index.html
the Roundhouse -- http://members.xoom.com/1_nightwolf/index.html
August 1999