
Welcome, and to those who know the ways of the Avatar, are familiar with the 
Virtues, or who are arriving from the various shards, Hail!

Installation: Uncompress archive and copy Britannia.MAP to your RRT2 map directory
(usually c:/Program Files/Railroad Tycoon II/maps).
 
There are two of us: one is a veteran of the Ultima series; the other a 
late-comer, but a veteran of Ultima Online.  Our map "Britannia" represents 
our efforts  to interpret the land of Britannia, a place familiar to any 
adventurer who has ever booted up a program with the word 'Ultima' in the 
title.  Because of the need for a larger number of towns and cities, we have 
imported cities from a number of Ultima games.  You'll find cities from the 
traditional Britannia, Serpent Isle, Pagan, and Mars.

Before anything else, we acknowledge that words like "Ultima," "Ultima Online" 
and probably a whole bunch of other stuff belongs to Origin Systems, Inc. or 
Electronic Arts, Inc. and is protected under copyright and trademark laws.  
We have only intended to make fair use of this material in providing a 
"Railroad Tycoon interpretation" of it.  

The map itself puts a premium on planning, especially with respect to laying 
track, grading, and coordinating resources with destinations.  It is not cheap 
in most places to lay track.  As to possible routes,  there are at least four 
routes over or through the main range of mountains that can be built without 
a single piece of grade 4.0 (or higher) track.  And yes, you can get to the 
coal and iron mines on on the north side of the northernmost mountains in a 
similar fashion if you really want to.

We have found that the map works best starting in the late 19th century.  We 
recommend 1880 (and the single player scenario is designed for that date) 
although +/- 10 to fifteen years might also work.
 
There are several "events" in both the multiplayer and single player versions.  
Connecting to  locations such as the shrines or dungeons (or the spots that would 
be shrines or dungeons in the Ultima games) provides rewards and perhaps some risks. 
Watch the notes and newspapers carefully.  Be prepared for a surprise or two.  
While we think the map has its challenges, getting to gold is quite possible. 
 
We hope you will have as much fun playing this map as we have had putting it 
together.  Please forward any comments or suggestions to jsylvest@texas.net 
and/or gsbales@home.net.
