--- General Information ---
Full Map Title : Green Mars
Author : ===Gonzo===>
Copyright Info. : Gonzo Industries 6/1999
Distribution : If you want it you can have it

Usage Restrictions : Feel free to modify this map, but if modified be sure to note it as such.  

--- Vital Statistics ---
Starting Year : 1825
Start Range : 1825
Map Size : 500 * 500 (Yes it's big)
Map Base : New Map
Topography Base : Ares Vallis, Mars.
Territories : Yes (7) 
Map Restrictions: None.
Special Restrictions: None.
Barred Industry : Tropical Industries(Cotton, Coffee, Rubber, Sugar)  products are available in the ports.
Player Pool : N. America 
Manager Pool : All
Locomotive Pool : N. America + Special options to import 4-2-2 Iron Duke and 4-6-2 A4 Mallard

--- Single Player Data ---
Single Player : Scenario 
Computer Players: Yes (3) Manditory
SP Gold Win : Connect all seven territorial capitols, $100,000,000 personal net worth, and $750,000,000 
company book value. 
SP Silver Win: $100,000,000 personal net worth, and $750,000,000 company book value. 
SP Bronze Win: $100,000,000 personal net worth.
SP Loss: Fail to win.

--- Multi-Player Data ---
Multi-Player : No
MP Gold Win : N/A.
MP Silver Win : N/A.
MP Bronze Win : N/A.
MP Loss :  N/A.

--- Extra Information ---
Known Bugs : None (pick one)
Other Notes :
Original description of the landing site from NASA: 
NASA has selected an ancient flood plain on Mars as the landing site for the 1996 mission of Mars Pathfinder, 
one of the first in a new generation of small, low-cost spacecraft. Eons ago, when water flowed on Mars, great 
floods inundated the landing site, located on a rocky plain in an area known today as Ares Vallis. The site is 
850 kilometers (527 miles) southeast of the location of Viking Lander 1, which in 1976 became the first 
spacecraft to land on Mars. Pathfinder will be the first to land on Mars since the twin Viking landers arrived 
almost 20 years ago. The spacecraft, scheduled to arrive at Mars on July 4, 1997, will parachute down to Ares 
Vallis at the mouth of an ancient outflow channel chosen for the variety of rock and soil samples it may 
present. The target landing site, at the center of the landing ellipse pictured below, is 19.5 N, 32.8 W. 
The purpose of the new Pathfinder mission is to demonstrate an inexpensive system for cruise, entry, descent 
and landing on Mars, said Project Manager Anthony Spear and Project Scientist Dr. Matthew Golombek of 
NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. The lander, carrying the microrover, will aerobrake in the upper 
Martian atmosphere using an aeroshell and a parachute. Just before impact, airbags will inflate to cushion 
the landing. The microrover will then roll out to examine the rocks and soil nearby. Both lander and rover 
will carry scientific instruments and cameras. The lander will make atmospheric and meteorological 
observations during descent and function as a weather station on the surface, as well as a radio relay station 
for the rover. The constraints on the location have to do with engineering considerations, Spear said. Since 
the spacecraft are solar-powered, the best site is one with maximum sunshine and in July, 1997, the sun will 
be directly over the 15 degrees north latitude region of the planet. The elevation must be as low as possible, 
Spear added, so the descent parachute has sufficient time to open and slow the lander to the correct terminal 
velocity. The landing will be within a 100- by 200-kilometer (60- by 120-mile) ellipse around the targeted site 
due to uncertainties in navigation and atmospheric entry. 
Ares Vallis, which meets the engineering constraints, was chosen after a workshop earlier this year that 
involved the invited participation of the entire scientific community concerned with Mars. More than 60 
scientists from the United States and Europe attended. The Ares Vallis site is also a "grab bag" location, 
according to Golombek, set at the mouth of a large outflow channel in which a wide variety of rocks are 
potentially within the reach of the rover. Even though the exact origins of the samples would not be known, 
he said, the chance of sampling a variety of rocks in a small area could reveal a lot about Mars. The rocks 
would have been washed down from highlands at a time when floods moved over the surface of Mars. Several 
potential sites were listed where ancient flood channels emptied into Chryse Planitia, having cut through 
crustal units and ridged plains where the water would have picked up material and deposited it on the plain. 
Other sites that were considered included Oxia Palus, a dark highlands region that contains highland crust 
and dark wind-blown deposits; Maja Valles Fan, a delta fan which drained an outflow channel; and the Maja 
Highlands, just south of Maja Valles. All of the sites were studied using Viking orbiter data. 
Both the Pathfinder lander and rover have stereo imaging systems. The rover, additionally, carries an alpha 
proton x-ray spectrometer with which it will examine the composition of the rocks. The imaging system will 
reveal the mineralogy of surface materials as well as the geologic processes and surface-atmosphere 
interactions that created and modified the surface. The instrument package will also enable scientists to 
determine dust particle size and water vapor abundance in the atmosphere. 
 
